+++
title = "Cognitive Models in Intelligence Research: Advantages and Recommendations for Their Application"
date = 2018-07-17
draft = false

# Authors.
authors = ["Gidon T. Frischkorn", "Anna-Lena Schubert"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference paper
# 2 = Journal article
# 3 = Manuscript
# 4 = Report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book section
publication_types = ["2"]


# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "Journal of Intelligence"
publication_short = ""

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Understanding the nature of intelligence has been a central interest for psychological scientists for more than a hundred years. The last decades have seen an ever-increasing interest in understanding the biological bases underlying intelligence. This symposium presents recent methodological developments and new insights into the genetic and neural bases of cognitive abilities. Schubert et al. demonstrate how psychophysiological measures can be combined with mathematical modelling to identify specific neuro-cognitive processes giving rise to the well-established association between mental speed and general intelligence. Genç et al. describe structural properties of the brain that could explain differences in neural efficiency. Using advanced diffusion tensor imaging methods, they show that higher intelligence is associated with lower dendritic density and arborisation – suggesting that cortical neurons are wired up in a more efficient manner in more intelligent individuals. Combing fMRI resting state measures with graph-theoretical network modelling for the analysis of intrinsic functional connectivity in the brain, Hilger et al. show that intelligence is associated with brain region-specific differences in the efficiency of network organization and the communication within and between neural subnetworks. These neural correlates of intelligence may partially have a genetic basis. Regarding the heritability of intelligence, there has been a striking divergence between estimates from molecular genetic (30%) and quantitative genetic studies (50-80%). Combining molecular genetic and pedigree-based data, Penke et al. reconcile the divergent findings in demonstrating that rare genetic variants (that are poorly tagged on current genotyping platforms) explain a substantial proportion of phenotypic variance in intelligence. This symposium provides an up-to-date view on recent developments in the study of (neuro-) biological mechanisms underlying intelligence and discusses future research avenues for improving our understanding of the relation between biology and ability."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter your project's filename without extension.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects = []

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "http://www.mdpi.com/2079-3200/6/3/34/pdf"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
url_custom = [{name = "Journal Article", url = "http://www.mdpi.com/2079-3200/6/3/34"}]

# Does this page contain LaTeX math? (true/false)
math = true

# Does this page require source code highlighting? (true/false)
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++

More detail can easily be written here using *Markdown* and $\rm \LaTeX$ math code.
